Adding docs for running cortex with cassandra (#1953)
cortexproject/cortex: docs/guides/cortex-with-cassandra.md

  grpc_server_max_concurrent_streams: 1000

distributor:
  shard_by_all_labels: true
  pool:
    health_check_ingesters: true

ingester_client:
  grpc_client_config:
    # Configure the client to allow messages up to 100MB.
    max_recv_msg_size: 104857600
    max_send_msg_size: 104857600
    use_gzip_compression: true

ingester:
  lifecycler:
    # The address to advertise for this ingester. Will be autodiscovered by
    # looking up address on eth0 or en0; can be specified if this fails.
    address: 127.0.0.1

    # We want to start immediately and flush on shutdown.
    join_after: 0
    claim_on_rollout: false
    final_sleep: 0s
    num_tokens: 512

    # Use an in memory ring store, so we don't need to launch a Consul.
    ring:
      kvstore:
        store: inmemory
      replication_factor: 1

# Use cassandra as storage -for both index store and chunks store.
schema:
  configs:
  - from: 2019-07-29
    store: cassandra
    object_store: cassandra
    schema: v10
    index:
      prefix: index_
      period: 168h

storage:
  cassandra:
    addresses: LOCALHOST # configure cassandra addresses here.
    keyspace: KEYSPACE   # configure desired keyspace here.
```

> Running Cortex as an image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run Cortex using the latest stable version:
```

```
docker run -d --name=cortex -v $(pwd)/single-process-config.yaml:/etc/single-process-config.yaml -p 9009:9009  quay.io/cortexproject/cortex -config.file=/etc/single-process-config.yaml
```
In case you prefer to run the master version, please follow this [documentation](https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md) on how to build Cortex from sources.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Prometheus to send series to Cortex
```

> Now the Cortex is running on http://localhost:9009

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the Cortex is running on `http://localhost:9009`.
```

> Add remote write configuration for your prometheus config file. This writes the metrics data to your Cortex. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add following snippet to your Prometheus configuration file, in order to configure the remote write to send metrics to Cortex running locally:
```

```
remote_write:
   - url: http://localhost:9009/api/prom/push
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Grafana to visualise metrics
```

> Run grafana to visualise metrics from Cortex service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run grafana to visualise metrics from Cortex:
```

```
docker run -d --name=grafana -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

> Add a data source in grafana by picking the prometheus type as data source and configure Cortex url to query metrics. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a data source in grafana by picking the Prometheus type as data source and configure Cortex url to query metrics: `http://localhost:9009/api/prom`.
```

_Then remove the next line._

---
title: "Running Cortex with Cassandra"
linkTitle: "Running Cortex with Cassandra"
weight: 7
slug: cassandra
---

This guide covers how to run a single local Cortex instance - with the chunks storage engine - storing time series chunks and index in Cassandra.

In this guide we're going to:

1. Setup a locally running Cassandra
2. Configure Cortex to store chunks and index on Cassandra
3. Configure Prometheus to send series to Cortex
4. Configure Grafana to visualise metrics

## Setup a locally running Cassandra

> Run Cassandra with following cmd:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run Cassandra with the following command:
```

```
docker run -d --name cassandra --rm -p 9042:9042 cassandra:3.11
```

> Get a cql shell in the Cassandra container:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use Docker to execute the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) shell in the container:
```

```
docker exec -it <container_id> cqlsh
```

> Create a new Cassandra keyspace for Cortex metrics:

Reviewer 2: These commands are likely to be run by people with no previous Cassandra experience, it would be good to shortly (at most one or two sentences) explain what is a keyspace and why it's needed.

```
CREATE KEYSPACE cortex WITH replication = {'class':'SimpleStrategy', 'replication_factor' : 1};
```
## Configure Cortex to store chunks and index on Cassandra

> Now we have to configure Cortex to store chunks and index in Cassandra. Create a config file called `single-process-config.yaml` and add the following content, replacing the placeholders:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, we have to configure Cortex to store the chunks and index in Cassandra. Create a config file called `single-process-config.yaml`, then add the content below. Make sure to replace the following placeholders:
```

- `LOCALHOST`: Addresses of your Cassandra instance. This can accept multiple addresses by passing them as comma separated values.
- `KEYSPACE`: The name of the Cassandra keyspace used to store the metrics.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`single-process-config.yaml`
```

Reviewer 2: This will help clearly indicate that this is the file you referred to before.

```
# Configuration for running Cortex in single-process mode.
# This should not be used in production.  It is only for getting started
# and development.

# Disable the requirement that every request to Cortex has a
# X-Scope-OrgID header. `fake` will be substituted in instead.
auth_enabled: false

server:
  http_listen_port: 9009

  # Configure the server to allow messages up to 100MB.
  grpc_server_max_recv_msg_size: 104857600
  grpc_server_max_send_msg_size: 104857600
  grpc_server_max_concurrent_streams: 1000

distributor:
  shard_by_all_labels: true
  pool:
    health_check_ingesters: true

ingester_client:
  grpc_client_config:
    # Configure the client to allow messages up to 100MB.
    max_recv_msg_size: 104857600
    max_send_msg_size: 104857600
    use_gzip_compression: true

ingester:
  lifecycler:
    # The address to advertise for this ingester. Will be autodiscovered by

>     # looking up address on eth0 or en0; can be specified if this fails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # looking up addresses on eth0 or en0; can be specified if the discovery fails.
```

    address: 127.0.0.1

    # We want to start immediately and flush on shutdown.
    join_after: 0
    claim_on_rollout: false
    final_sleep: 0s
    num_tokens: 512

>     # Use an in memory ring store, so we don't need to launch a Consul.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Use an in-memory ring store, to avoid using Consul.
```

    ring:
      kvstore:
        store: inmemory
      replication_factor: 1

> # Use cassandra as storage -for both index store and chunks store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Use Cassandra as storage for both index store and chunks store.
```

schema:
  configs:
  - from: 2019-07-29
    store: cassandra
    object_store: cassandra
    schema: v10
    index:
      prefix: index_
      period: 168h

storage:
  cassandra:
    addresses: LOCALHOST # configure cassandra addresses here.
    keyspace: KEYSPACE   # configure desired keyspace here.
```

Run Cortex using the latest stable version:

```
docker run -d --name=cortex -v $(pwd)/single-process-config.yaml:/etc/single-process-config.yaml -p 9009:9009  quay.io/cortexproject/cortex -config.file=/etc/single-process-config.yaml
```

> In case you prefer to run the master version, please follow this [documentation](https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md) on how to build Cortex from sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case you prefer to run the master version, please follow this [documentation](https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md) on how to build Cortex from source.
```

## Configure Prometheus to send series to Cortex

> Now the Cortex is running on `http://localhost:9009`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that Cortex is up, it should be running on `http://localhost:9009`.
```

> Add following snippet to your Prometheus configuration file, in order to configure the remote write to send metrics to Cortex running locally:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add the following section to your Prometheus configuration file. This will configure the remote write to send metrics to Cortex.
```

```
remote_write:
   - url: http://localhost:9009/api/prom/push
```
## Configure Grafana to visualise metrics

Run grafana to visualise metrics from Cortex:

```
docker run -d --name=grafana -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

> Add a data source in grafana by picking the Prometheus type as data source and configure Cortex url to query metrics: `http://localhost:9009/api/prom`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a data source in Grafana by selecting Prometheus as the data source type and use the Cortex URL to query metrics: `http://localhost:9009/api/prom`.
```

> Now you can monitor the Cortex reads & writes by creating the dashboard's using this [documentation](https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex/tree/master/production/dashboards).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, You can monitor Cortex's reads & writes by creating the dashboard. You can follow this [documentation](https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex/tree/master/production/dashboards) to do so.
```

## Running cortex with cassandra

Cortex works as a backend store for prometheus that offers long term storage, multi-tenancy & global aggregation of metrics. 

We can run cortex as a single binary either by running it as an container or as a process by building it from scratch.

Now we are using cassandra as backend storage. Let's create a new cassandra instance by running the below commands or you can use the existing cassandra setup:

Run cassandra with following cmd

```

> docker run --name cassandra --rm -p 9042:9042 cassandra:3.11

Reviewer 3: I guess you need to add `-d` as well?

```

ssh into cassandra container 

```

> docker exec -it <container_id> bash

Reviewer 3: What about directly use `docker exec -it <container_id> cqlsh`

Author: yeah. I will do that :) Thanks!

    max_recv_msg_size: 104857600
    max_send_msg_size: 104857600
    use_gzip_compression: true

ingester:
  lifecycler:
    # The address to advertise for this ingester. Will be autodiscovered by
    # looking up address on eth0 or en0; can be specified if this fails.
    address: 127.0.0.1

    # We want to start immediately and flush on shutdown.
    join_after: 0
    claim_on_rollout: false
    final_sleep: 0s
    num_tokens: 512

    # Use an in memory ring store, so we don't need to launch a Consul.
    ring:
      kvstore:
        store: inmemory
      replication_factor: 1

# Use cassandra as storage -for both index store and chunks store.
schema:
  configs:
  - from: 2019-07-29
    store: cassandra
    object_store: cassandra
    schema: v10
    index:
      prefix: index_
      period: 168h

storage:
  cassandra:
    addresses: LOCALHOST # configure cassandra addresses here.
    keyspace: KEYSPACE   # configure desired keyspace here.
```

Running cortex as an image

```
docker run -d --name=cortex -v $(pwd)/single-process-config.yaml:/etc/single-process-config.yaml -p 9009:9009  quay.io/cortexproject/cortex -config.file=/etc/single-process-config.yaml
```

> Running cortex as a executable by building it from source

Reviewer: I would remove the part related to building cortex from sources. In a generic guide we can just show how to run the latest stable version of Cortex. At most you could just mention that "In case you prefer to run the `master` version, please follow this documentation on how to build Cortex from sources." linking it to a page explaining it.

clone the cortex project by using

```
git clone https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex.git
```

Build the cortex from source using

```
go build ./cmd/cortex
```

Now run the cortex using the executable generated and by passing single-process-config.yaml that we built in the previous steps.

```
./cortex -config.file=./single-process-config.yaml
```

Now the cortex is running on http://localhost:9009

Add remote write configuration for your prometheus config file. This writes the metrics data to your cortex. 

```
remote_write:
   - url: http://localhost:9009/api/prom/push
```

Run grafana to visualise metrics from cortex service.

```
docker run -d --name=grafana -p 3000:3000 grafana/grafana
```

Add a data source in grafana by picking the prometheus type as data source and configure cortex url to query metrics. 
i.e http://localhost:9009/api/prom

Now you can monitor the cortex reads & writes by creating the dashboard for cortex.

clone grafonnet project using the below cmd

```
git clone https://github.com/grafana/grafonnet-lib.git
```

Now configure the grafonnet path in the below commands. This will generate cortex read, write path dashboard for grafana.

> You can find cortex-read.jsonnet at

Reviewer: Instead of copy-pasting URLs, please always link them. For example:

```
You may use the following Cortex dashboards:

- [Cortex - read](https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex/blob/master/production/dashboards/cortex-read.jsonnet): `jsonnet -J <grafonnet-path> -o cortex-read.json cortex-read.jsonnet`
- [Cortex - write](https://github.com/cortexproject/cortex/blob/master/production/dashboards/cortex-write.jsonnet): `jsonnet -J <grafonnet-path> -o cortex-write.json cortex-write.jsonnet`
```
